docs/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: dotfiles
---


## install
This dotfiles repository is designed to be installed at `~/Codes/dotfiles`.

Review the contents of the script before running it:  
[https://dot.umeru.ma/install](https://dot.umeru.ma/install)

Open Terminal.app, and run:

```
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://dot.umeru.ma/install)"
```
This will clone the repository to `~/Codes/dotfiles` and set up your dotfiles.

Notes on bash and curl options:

bash:
- `-c`: Execute the given string as a bash command (e.g., `bash -c "echo hello"` outputs `hello`).

curl:
- `-f` (`--fail`): Fail silently on server errors (no output, exit non-zero).
- `-s` (`--silent`): Silent mode — do not show progress meter or error messages.
- `-S` (`--show-error`): When used with `-s`, show error messages on failure (since `-s` alone is fully silent).
- `-L` (`--location`): Follow HTTP redirects automatically.

## jump to dotfiles

In Terminal, you can quickly jump to the dotfiles directory by running:
```
dot 
```

.zshenv & .zshrc contains:
```
# on .zshenv
export DOTFILES="$HOME/Codes/dotfiles"

# on .zshrc
alias dot='cd $DOTFILES' 
```

## Deploy dotfiles

To deploy your dotfiles to your home directory, simply run:

```
dot && just deploy
```

### Pre-create subdirectories

Before deploying with GNU Stow, this repository can automatically create any required subdirectories in your home directory, based on a plain text list in `.deploy_subdir`.

**How it works:**
- Reads `.deploy_subdir` line by line
	- Ignores blank lines and lines starting with `#`
	- Trims whitespace
- Runs `mkdir -p "$HOME/<path>"` for each valid line
- Then deploys `home/` using Stow

This process runs automatically as part of `just deploy` via the `prepare-subdirs` recipe.

#### Usage
1. Add the directories you need to `.deploy_subdir` (one path per line):

		```
		# editors
		.config/micro
		.config/nvim

		# tools
		.local/share/fzf
		```

2. Deploy your dotfiles:

		```
		just deploy
		```

This ensures all listed directories (e.g. `~/.config/micro`) exist before Stow creates symlinks, making deployment more reliable.

**Notes:**
- Implementation is in the `justfile` under the `prepare-subdirs` recipe
- Input is tolerant of whitespace and comments

## macOS defaults
To update macOS defaults setting, run:

```
dot && just defaults
```

## macOS Terminal theme
To apply theme for macOS Terminal, run:
```
dot && just theme
```

then looks like this:

<img alt="" src="https://i.gyazo.com/e6b46b2e0332ecbbf1e2fcf859533f3c.jpg"/>

## tech stack

- [just](https://github.com/casey/just#readme) as command runner
- [sheldon](https://github.com/rossmacarthur/sheldon#readme) as zsh plugin manager
- [Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Manpage) as package manager

## website

[dot.umeru.ma](https://dot.umeru.ma)

Commit message:

feat: replace justfile to mise.toml

docs/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: dotfiles
---


## install
This dotfiles repository is designed to be installed at `~/Codes/dotfiles`.

Review the contents of the script before running it:  
[https://dot.umeru.ma/install](https://dot.umeru.ma/install)

Open Terminal.app, and run:

```
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://dot.umeru.ma/install)"
```
This will clone the repository to `~/Codes/dotfiles` and set up your dotfiles.

Notes on bash and curl options:

bash:
- `-c`: Execute the given string as a bash command (e.g., `bash -c "echo hello"` outputs `hello`).

curl:
- `-f` (`--fail`): Fail silently on server errors (no output, exit non-zero).
- `-s` (`--silent`): Silent mode — do not show progress meter or error messages.
- `-S` (`--show-error`): When used with `-s`, show error messages on failure (since `-s` alone is fully silent).
- `-L` (`--location`): Follow HTTP redirects automatically.

## jump to dotfiles

In Terminal, you can quickly jump to the dotfiles directory by running:
```
dot 
```

.zshenv & .zshrc contains:
```
# on .zshenv
export DOTFILES="$HOME/Codes/dotfiles"

# on .zshrc
alias dot='cd $DOTFILES' 
```

## Deploy dotfiles

To deploy your dotfiles to your home directory, simply run:

```
dot && mise run deploy
```

### Pre-create subdirectories

Before deploying with GNU Stow, this repository can automatically create any required subdirectories in your home directory, based on a plain text list in `.deploy_subdir`.

**How it works:**
- Reads `.deploy_subdir` line by line
	- Ignores blank lines and lines starting with `#`
	- Trims whitespace
- Runs `mkdir -p "$HOME/<path>"` for each valid line
- Then deploys `home/` using Stow

This process runs automatically as part of `mise run deploy` via the `prepare-subdirs` task dependency.

#### Usage
1. Add the directories you need to `.deploy_subdir` (one path per line):

		```
		# editors
		.config/micro
		.config/nvim

		# tools
		.local/share/fzf
		```

2. Deploy your dotfiles:

		```
		mise run deploy
		```

This ensures all listed directories (e.g. `~/.config/micro`) exist before Stow creates symlinks, making deployment more reliable.

**Notes:**
- Implementation is in `script/prepare-subdirs.zsh` and wired up in `mise.toml` as the hidden `prepare-subdirs` task (a dependency of `deploy`)
- Input is tolerant of whitespace and comments

## macOS defaults
To update macOS defaults setting, run:

```
dot && mise run defaults
```

## macOS Terminal theme
To apply theme for macOS Terminal, run:
```
dot && mise run theme
```

then looks like this:

<img alt="" src="https://i.gyazo.com/e6b46b2e0332ecbbf1e2fcf859533f3c.jpg"/>

## tech stack

- [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/) as task runner
- [sheldon](https://github.com/rossmacarthur/sheldon#readme) as zsh plugin manager
- [Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Manpage) as package manager

## website

[dot.umeru.ma](https://dot.umeru.ma)
